1. Create project
> django-admin startproject poject-name
2. Create application
> python manage.py startapp app-name
3. create database schema with help of ORM app's models.py file.
4. Activating the application
> add application name in project's settings.py file as element in "INSTALLED_APPS" (INSTALLED_APPS = [ ...., app-name.apps.BlogConfig] this will helps Django to knows that your application is active for this project and will be able to load its models.
5. Creating and applying migrations
> Django's migration system tracks the changes made to models and enables them to propagate into the database. 
> python manage.py makemigrations blog
> Result :  the 0001_initial.py file is created inside the migrations directory of the application and sql code was generated let check it with *python manage.py sqlmigrate blog 0001*
> sync your database with the new model. Run the following command to apply existing migrations:*python manage.py migrate* command to keep the database in sync with your models.
6. Creating an administration site for models
> **Creating a superuser** : *python manage.py createsuperuser* and fill in Username, Email address, Password, Password (again) the message "Superuser created successfully" will appear in the end of the process.
> **The Django administration site** Now start the development server with the python manage.py runserver command and open http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/ in your browser. You should see the administration login page, as shown in the following screenshot:
> **Adding models to the administration site** add your application models to the administration site. in admin.py file of the that application.
> **Customizing the way that models are displayed** Edit the admin.py file of your  application
7. Working with QuerySets and managers
8. Creating model managers
> objects is the default manager of every model that retrieves all objects in the database. However, you can also define custom managers for your models. You will create a custom manager to retrieve all posts with the published status. Edit the models.py file of your application to add the custom manager.
9. Building list and detail views
> A Django view is just a Python function that receives a web request and returns a web response. All the logic to return the desired response goes inside the view.
> First, you will create your application views, then you will define a URL pattern for each view, and finally, you will create HTML templates to render the data generated by the views. Each view will render a template, passing variables to it, and will return an HTTP response with the rendered output.
> **Creating list and detail views** make views.py file in your application.
> **Adding URL patterns for your views** URL patterns allow you to map URLs to views. create urls.py file in your application.
> include the URL patterns of the  application in the main URL patterns of the project.
> **Canonical URLs for models** Edit the models.py file of the application
> **Adding pagination** Edit the views.py file of the blog application to import the Django paginator classes and modify the post_list view


